DATASET DESCRIPTION

DualAAE-EHR DIABETES GEN3 for CAMDA (diabetes-dualAAE-EHR-CAMDA GEN3)
(05/02/2025):

A 3rd generation synthetic dataset was generated by the same DualAAE-EHR
model from an extended population of 1062550 real diabetes patients.

The cohort of real patients has some differences in filtering and 
preprocessing regading previous generations, mainly:

- Amputation, a low frequency endpoint, is kept for all visits, not filtering.
- Sex is still coded as a first visit with the following labels:
  "1111" --> men | "2222" --> women
- All visits feature an age label. Ages from 0-120 are labelled as:
  "9000", "9001", "9002", ..., "9120"
- Chronic pathology codes have been reduced to 81. Two codes were removed 
  from previous generation (not considered chronic anymore):
  "0901" -> Acute cerebrovascular disease
  "0903" -> Transient ischemic attack

Other than those, the preprocessing was performed similarly to previous versions.

All coding is described in the
- List of BPS pathologies codes with English translation:
  BPS_pathologies_gen3.csv
- List of additional demographic codes:
  BPS_demographics_gen3.csv
  
The 999,936 patients for this third generation synthetic EHRs were generated
extended visit dates and new patients till end of 2022. Each patient is still 
coded as a ordered list of visits, each of them with a list of co-occurring 
chronic diagnoses. As the diagnoses are chronic they all affect patients from
the time recorded onwards.

This synthetic dataset is shared exactly as it was generated, including 
inconsistent records like patients with multiple sex labels, patients without 
a diabetes label, patients with inconsistent lists of age, etc:
  daae_generated_diabetes_patients_camda_gen3.json
  
A pre-processed cleaned up version of this dataset is also provided, in
case users want to use it instead:
  daae_generated_diabetes_patients_camda_gen3_preprocessed.json

This pre-processed version reduces the number of patients to 994,095 by
performing the following cleaning steps:
- Patients without diabetes code were discarded.
- Empty visits or visits only with age codes were removed.
- Only the first appearance of each diagnosis was kept (as they are
  chronic diseases).
- In case several age codes are provided in one visit, the code of the
  older age is kept.
- In visits without age code, age is inferred. Average age between previous
  and posterior visit is considered. In case visit is the first or last one, 
  same age as posterior or previous visit is considered, respectively.
 
The same 4 endpoints of interest in relation to diabetes can be found
in the third generation dataset:
- Retinopathy (Code "703")
- Chronic kidney disease (Code "1401")
- Ischemic heart disease (Code "910")
- Amputations (Code "1999")
Retinopathy, nhronic kidney disease and ischemic heart disease have increased their
prevalence given the extension of visits till end of 2022, making them easier to 
predict. Amputation is still considered a challenging low frequency endpoint. 

LICENSE

Note that the data provided here are exclusively to be used in line
with the CAMDA Terms and Conditions found at www.camda.info to which
everyone has to agree before downloading and using the data.
Specifically, you need to comply with all ethical and legal
restrictions applicable in your jurisdiction and environment.
Results must be submitted for publication at one of the CAMDA
conference meetings.
